appengine/swarming/ui2/README.md, before:

# Web Components Swarming UI


This is the Web Components based UI. It aims to be lighter-weight and more
future-proof than the previous Polymer v1 UI, but functionally identical.

## Prerequisites

You will install a node.js, npm and npx via cipd (they usually come together).
You should always use the same node/npm/npx used in bots. Please use
`gclient sync` to fetch them.

## npm install

After doing a git pull, before running any make commands, you must run:

    make install_deps

This should only be required once per pull (in case package.json was updated).

## Building

To build the pages for deploying, run:

    make release

The output of the dist/ folder will have the bundled HTML, JS and CSS files.
This should be checked in so as to fit with the App Engine deployment setup.

## Using the demo pages

To build the pages locally for demoing/developing, run:

    make serve

Then, navigate to <http://localhost:8080/newres/swarming-index.html> to see
one of the demo pages.  You can navigate to newres/[foo] where foo is one
of the modules (found in ./modules/) or one of the top level HTML files
(found in ./pages/). The pages in ./modules have mock data, so those are
generally more useful.

If you are running `make serve` on a cloudtop you can access the demo pages on your local machine by using an ssh-tunnel. Run the command

    ssh <your-user-name>@<your-cloudtop-host> -L 8080:localhost:8080


All the links should work as expected if opened on local machine.

The list of all demo pages so far (for easy clicking):

  - [bot-list](http://localhost:8080/newres/bot-list.html)
  - [bot-mass-delete](http://localhost:8080/newres/bot-mass-delete.html)
  - [sort-toggle](http://localhost:8080/newres/sort-toggle.html)
  - [swarming-app](http://localhost:8080/newres/swarming-app.html)
  - [swarming-index](http://localhost:8080/newres/swarming-index.html)
  - [task-list](http://localhost:8080/newres/task-list.html)
  - [task-mass-cancel](http://localhost:8080/newres/task-mass-cancel.html)
  - [task-page](http://localhost:8080/newres/task-page.html)

By default, the login is mocked so it works w/o an internet connection,
but if testing the real OAuth 2.0 flow is desired, a client_id may be
specified (see `swarming-index-demo.html` for an example). Be sure to also
allow `localhost:8080` for that client_id.

## Running the tests

Any file matching `modules/**/*_test.js` will automatically be added to the
test suite. When developing tests, it is easiest to put the tests in
"automatically rebuild and run" mode, which can be done with
`make continuous_test`.

To run all tests exactly once on Firefox and Chrome (assuming those browsers
are present):

    make test

If a test is failing, it can be difficult to debug w/o a browser given the fact
that the code is bundled and minified before testing. To ease this a little bit,
many assertions have been modified by adding an (undocumented) second param.
This second param will be shown if the assertion fails and can make it a little
easier to track down. For example:
`expect(...).toContain('foo', 'foo is very important to be in this string')`

The easiest way to debug a failing test is to run it in a browser and use
DevTools.
To facilitate that, run:

    make browser_test

and navigate to <http://localhost:9876/debug.html>. A suggested workflow to deal
with the minified code is to add a few breakpoints, then use the log messages to
access the lines inside the minified source (DevTools can unminify it, to a
point). Then, add breakpoints and go from there.

When debugging certain tests, it may be useful to prefix the `it` or `describe`
statement with a letter 'f' (for force). Then, only tests with the 'f' prefix
will run. Conversely, tests can be disabled with an 'x' prefix.

## Generating the docs

We use [JSDoc](http://usejsdoc.org) to document the modules. While the
documentation is readable inline, it can be easier to browse in a web browser.

To generate the HTML docs, run

    make docs

which will open docs/index.html after build.

Commit message:

[swarming] Add propagate CLIENT_ERROR task state to UI.
Some examples:
https://screenshot.googleplex.com/7XTkzTDo6KmceaC
https://screenshot.googleplex.com/BF86N5yJYGfSMs9
https://screenshot.googleplex.com/86KFYQi53YrJLEv

Change-Id: I709cd1b46c32d3a658deadbdc508644dd83fc838

appengine/swarming/ui2/README.md, after:

# Web Components Swarming UI


This is the Web Components based UI. It aims to be lighter-weight and more
future-proof than the previous Polymer v1 UI, but functionally identical.

## Prerequisites

You will install a node.js, npm and npx via cipd (they usually come together).
You should always use the same node/npm/npx used in bots. Please use
`gclient sync` to fetch them.

## npm install

After doing a git pull, before running any make commands, you must run:

    make install_deps

This should only be required once per pull (in case package.json was updated).

## Building

To build the pages for deploying, run:

    make release

The output of the dist/ folder will have the bundled HTML, JS and CSS files.
This should be checked in so as to fit with the App Engine deployment setup.

## Using the demo pages

To build the pages locally for demoing/developing, run:

    make serve

Then, navigate to <http://localhost:8080/newres/swarming-index.html> to see
one of the demo pages.  You can navigate to newres/[foo] where foo is one
of the modules (found in ./modules/) or one of the top level HTML files
(found in ./pages/). The pages in ./modules have mock data, so those are
generally more useful.

If you are running `make serve` on a cloudtop you can access the demo pages on your local machine by using an ssh-tunnel. Run the command

    ssh <your-user-name>@<your-cloudtop-host> -L 8080:localhost:8080


All the links should work as expected if opened on local machine.

The list of all demo pages so far (for easy clicking):

  - [bot-list](http://localhost:8080/newres/bot-list.html)
  - [bot-mass-delete](http://localhost:8080/newres/bot-mass-delete.html)
  - [sort-toggle](http://localhost:8080/newres/sort-toggle.html)
  - [swarming-app](http://localhost:8080/newres/swarming-app.html)
  - [swarming-index](http://localhost:8080/newres/swarming-index.html)
  - [task-list](http://localhost:8080/newres/task-list.html)
  - [task-mass-cancel](http://localhost:8080/newres/task-mass-cancel.html)
  - [task-page](http://localhost:8080/newres/task-page.html)

By default, the login is mocked so it works w/o an internet connection,
but if testing the real OAuth 2.0 flow is desired, a client_id may be
specified (see `swarming-index-demo.html` for an example). Be sure to also
allow `localhost:8080` for that client_id.

## Running the tests

Any file matching `modules/**/*_test.js` will automatically be added to the
test suite. When developing tests, it is easiest to put the tests in
"automatically rebuild and run" mode, which can be done with
`make continuous_test`.

To run all tests exactly once on Firefox and Chrome (assuming those browsers
are present):

    make test

If a test is failing, it can be difficult to debug w/o a browser given the fact
that the code is bundled and minified before testing. To ease this a little bit,
many assertions have been modified by adding an (undocumented) second param.
This second param will be shown if the assertion fails and can make it a little
easier to track down. For example:
`expect(...).toContain('foo', 'foo is very important to be in this string')`

The easiest way to debug a failing test is to run it in a browser and use
DevTools.
To facilitate that, run:

    make browser_test

and navigate to <http://localhost:9876/debug.html>. A suggested workflow to deal
with the minified code is to add a few breakpoints, then use the log messages to
access the lines inside the minified source (DevTools can unminify it, to a
point). Then, add breakpoints and go from there.

When debugging certain tests, it may be useful to prefix the `it` or `describe`
statement with a letter 'f' (for force). Then, only tests with the 'f' prefix
will run. Conversely, tests can be disabled with an 'x' prefix.

If you are running on a local environment and get a disconnection error in the 
form: `Disconnectedreconnect failed before timeout of X ms`, try using the following the following custom launcher:

    customLaunchers: {
        'ChromeHeadless': {
            base: 'Chrome',
            flags: [
                '--headless',
                '--disable-gpu',
                '--no-sandbox',
                '--disable-web-security',
                // Without a debugging port, Chrome exits immediately.
                '--remote-debugging-port=9222'
            ],
            debug: true
        }
    },

## Generating the docs

We use [JSDoc](http://usejsdoc.org) to document the modules. While the
documentation is readable inline, it can be easier to browse in a web browser.

To generate the HTML docs, run

    make docs

which will open docs/index.html after build.
